.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd Mon May 19 2003               \" DATE 
.Dt Evolver 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm evolver
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.Nd The Surface Evolver, minimize energy of a surface
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl adehimqwxy              \" [-adehimqwxy]
.Op Fl f Ar file         \" [-f file] 
.Op Fl pN              \" [-pN]
.Op Ar datafile          \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
The Surface Evolver is a program that minimizes the energy of a triangulated
surface according to designated energies and constraints.  This man page only
documents command line options and environment variables.  The full package
and documentation are available at http://www.susqu.edu/brakke/evolver.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
Command line options (multiple letters may not be combined):
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Ar datafile
Text file defining a surface. If omitted, you will be prompted.
.It Fl a
Autoconvert to named quantities when needed (default is on); use "-a-" to 
deactivate autoconversion.
.It Fl d
Begin with parser debugging on (equivalent to "debug" runtime command).
Beware of copious output.
.It Fl e
Echo stdin to stdout; meant for testing piped input.
.It Fl f Ar file
After loading datafile, read commands from 
.Ar file , 
then command line prompt.
.It Fl h
Print help for command line options.
.It Fl i 
Preserve datafile numbers for element id's, rather than renumbering.
.It Fl m
Begin with memory debugging on (equivalent to "memdebug" runtime command).
Beware of copious output.
.It Fl pN
Run with N concurrent processes.
.It Fl q
Convert to named quantities at start (equivalent to "convert_to_quantities"
runtime command).
.It Fl w
Exit immediately after any warning or error message; meant for batch runs.
.It Fl x
Exit immediately after any error message; meant for batch runs.
.It Fl y
Break to user prompt after any warning message.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Sh ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES  
.Bl -tag -width "EVOLVERPATH" -compact
.It  EVOLVERPATH
Colon-separated list of paths automatically searched for datafiles, included
files, or help documentation.

